---
title: "40"
date: 2023-04-29T22:28:58-04:00
draft: true
---

I was born on Friday, April 29th, 1983. It was unseasonably warm that year. Spring came and went quickly. The trees were no longer blooming when my mother left the hospital.

Now, 2080 weeks later, it doesn't feel like I've passed a life milestone today. But, within the next decade, I expect to reach the inflection point where I have less time remaining than I have already spent on the earth.

I want to spend the last half of my life healthy and happy enough to make the best of it. I've devoted many hours to learning how to do this over the past year. I've been weighing my food, tracking my macros, and keeping a slight calorie deficit since last August (with some breaks around the holidays). I've lost just over 20 pounds. I still have a ways to go before I hit my leanness goal.

I want to be spry and active in my 80s. To do that, I need to invest in my overall fitness now. I am not metabolically healthy. I don't have good enough stability. I'm not strong enough. I have abysmal peak aerobic output. I can change all of these things; these goals are attainable. It will take directed effort and far more time caring for my body than I have spent over the last twenty years.

I have also underinvested in my mental health in my adult life. To rectify the situation, I'm working with my care team to relieve anxiety, rebuff depression, and improve emotional regulation. Taking care of your mind is hard work too.

As I improve my physical and mental condition, I'll be better equipped to take on more challenges at work, at home, and in pursuit of other interests. Most importantly, I'll be able to better engage with the relationships that matter most in my life.

Overall, I'm optimistic about the future. One thing concerns me: my 30s feel like they were gone in a flash. I can't slow the passage of time but I can try to be more mindful of the present.
